hey everyone it's neil patel and today's
another day of email marketing unlocked
where i teach you how to go from zero to
50 000 subscribers in today's lesson
we're going to be talking about testing
and tweaking iterating your email
marketing starts with your contacts and
there's really five steps and i'm just
gonna quickly go over the five steps and
then we're gonna go in depth on what you
really need to do to tweak and test so
that way you can maximize your revenue
from email marketing step one is
understand your products services and
how they're really being used that way
you can figure out what messaging you
need to put to maximize your sales two
you need to get feedback from customers
they may be happy with what you're doing
they may be sad they may be unsatisfied
and this feedback will help you tweak
and make things better
then you want to go into identifying
your customer base on demographics
psychographics behavior environmental
factors and more this allows you to
segment out your list and send people
messages based on what they are really
looking for versus some that's generic
to all your contacts
step four be sure to always keep your
customer profiles up to date you don't
want to be keeping sending people emails
to their old email address or uh to
balances or to people who don't want
your emails and then you want to serve
your customers again to gain insights on
changing habits preferences and
interests so you can keep up with the
latest trends that are happening in the
world
so now let's dive into the specifics
how do you develop relationships with
lean nurturing well email's all about
that one-on-one relationship you can put
the person's first name in the email
that helps you can develop that bond
between that prospect or that person in
your contact list by using words like
you or i within your email copy helps
build that deeper connection by
segmenting you can also make your emails
more personalized by having that story
within your brand that also helps as
well
in addition to that there's a lot of
technical housekeeping that you need to
do to maximize your email efforts for
example you're going to have errors
and these errors could be solved in many
different ways and the errors could
exist in many different formats
depending on the type of emails you're
sending for example if you have a
welcome email are you giving them a
freebie because if your open rates are
really slow or people are unsubscribing
maybe you're not giving some someone any
value in the welcome email or your
activation emails isn't really providing
any value or when you're doing marketing
emails you're just selling and you're
not educating enough
or if people are on your list for a long
time and they slowly stop opening up
your emails you don't may not have any
retention emails or reactivation emails
these are all things to consider when
you're sending out emails
in addition to that you'll find that
emails over time go into spam
are you getting spam complaints if so
adjust your emails because they may feel
that your emails are too aggressive or
too quote unquote spammy or are you
sending emails to people who don't want
them because if that's the case even if
they don't unsubscribe if they don't
open up your emails and they ignore them
it starts causing your emails to go into
spam box not just for them but for
everyone and that's why you want to
clean your list on a regular basis and
that's really how you bypass the spam
filter you don't send emails to people
who aren't opening them if you send an
email to someone four times it'll open
any of them stop sending them more
emails in the future and that's why your
audience may not be receiving any of
your emails because if you keep sending
them emails you'll find that gmail and
outlook are notoriously known for
putting all emails in spam boxes or
majority if you continually send emails
to people who don't want them
and i also recommend that you look at
your lists cleaned on a regular basis
you don't use misspelling you don't use
spammy words like free and all caps in
the subject line all these things can
really hurt your deliverability
check for hard bounces too because if an
email hard bounces that email probably
doesn't exist or it's no longer
available so remove them check for soft
bounces that's temporarily so maybe you
stop sending them emails for a few weeks
and then maybe it fixes itself over time
in general your email tool that you use
no matter which one you use pretty much
all of them have reporting so view the
reporting view the segmentation
view what's working from subject lines
to the call to actions and this will
give you an idea of what you should do
more of and what you should do less of
i also recommend that you create
personas because when you create
personas and when you see these patterns
and you create personas based off the
patterns that you're seeing you can
identify different personas
track them
and not in a sleazy or creepy way but
nonetheless you can track them segment
them and then send them specific offers
to maximize your conversion rate because
there's many different personality types
you know what my wife wants to see in
the email in many cases is going to be
different than what i want to end up
seeing
but at the same note we both love seeing
sales
i also recommend creating a predictive
model right and here's what i mean by
that
if you have list within your
email tool
and with these lists for example i have
a list of all past buyers
i know that if i email out my past
buyers for anything new
my conversion rate and revenue is
through the roof because 20 of my new
purchases tend to come from past buyers
so i really treat that list like it's
gold because it's the easy way for me to
generate more and more revenue
and you can start building out some
modeling every time you're creating new
offers on hey if i email this list
here's my average conversion rate here's
average revenue and this is how much
sales i'm going to get which then helps
make your business more predictable and
then you can use this data to figure out
where you should invest
and that's why i do things like monitor
my click-through rate my conversion
rates my open rates because it all gives
me an idea on hey what to expect from my
emails and if you notice things like
your open rate going down i recommend
that you go and try a different strategy
if you're using the same concept that's
worked for you for years but it slowly
stops working it's probably because your
list is getting used to it and you want
to try something new for example you
could try to send an email that's
related to a trend or a news event and
that could increase your open rates
so what is a good open rate or click
rate well with companies of one to 10
employees who sent 16 plus campaigns or
emails in a month medium open rate was
35 and click through it was 7
now if you're a much bigger company
you're gonna see your rates
slowly decline
because over time you probably have
bigger lists from what we're seeing
versus companies who have much smaller
uh employee account they tend to have
smaller lists that tend to be engaged
but as your list gets bigger and bigger
usually you'll see your rates drop down
and to track all of this if your email
tool doesn't give you what you need you
can also use google analytics set up
campaigns with their
use the utm tracking variables so that
way you can track everything in google
analytics as well i also recommend that
you a b test some of your emails all the
tools out there have this feature try
different subject lines call to actions
it'll give you idea of what's working
and what's not working and my favorite
strategy is email marketing
retargeting and what i mean by that is
if i send someone an email and they open
it i can remarket them around the web
and show them banner ads for my products
and services to really try to bring
brand awareness bring education and
eventually convert them into a customer
and that's why i really love email
marketing retargeting or email
retargeting because it's one of the
highest conversion rates that we've seen
and you can even show email ads through
gmail now believe it or not there's ads
that you can show people within their
gmail inbox um i know we covered a lot
within this lesson
i want you to go to neilpatel.com
training and click on email marketing
unlocked go to week two lesson two and i
want you to download these cheat sheets
and workflows it'll help you get things
through so in that way you can maximize
the revenue you're generating through
email if you enjoy this lesson like it
share it tell the people about it
subscribe to the channel thank you for
watching